.TH RECOLL.CONF 5 "14 November 2012"
.SH NAME
recoll.conf \- main personal configuration file for Recoll
.SH DESCRIPTION
This file defines the index configuration for the Recoll full-text search
system.
.LP
The system-wide configuration file is normally located inside
/usr/[local]/share/recoll/examples. Any parameter set in the common file
may be overridden by setting it in the specific index configuration file, by default:
.IR $HOME/.recoll/recoll.conf
.LP
All recoll commands will accept a
.B \-c
option or use the $RECOLL_CONFDIR environment variable to specify a non-default index configuration
directory.
.LP
A short extract of the file might look as follows:
.LP
.nf

# Space-separated list of directories to index.
topdirs =  ~/docs /usr/share/doc

[~/somedirectory-with-utf8-txt-files]
defaultcharset = utf-8

.fi
.LP
There are three kinds of lines:
.IP \(bu
Comment or empty.
.IP \(bu
Parameter affectation.
.IP \(bu
Section definition.
.LP
Empty lines or lines beginning with # are ignored.
.LP
Affectation lines are in the form 'name = value'. In the following description, they also have a
type, which is mostly indicative. The two non-obvious ones are 'fn': file path, and 'dfn': directory
path.
.LP
Section lines allow redefining a parameter for a directory subtree. Some of
the parameters used for indexing are looked up hierarchically from the
more to the less specific. Not all parameters can be meaningfully
redefined, this is specified for each in the next section.
.LP
The tilde character (~) is expanded in file names to the name of the user's
home directory.
.LP
Some 'string' values are lists, which is only indicated by their description. In this case white
space is used for separation, and elements with embedded spaces can be quoted with double-quotes.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BI "topdirs = "string
Space-separated list of files or directories to recursively index. You can use symbolic links in the list, they will be followed, independently of the value
of the followLinks variable. The default value is ~ : recursively index the user home folder.

.TP
.BI "monitordirs = "string
Space-separated list of files or directories to monitor for
updates. When running the real-time indexer, this allows monitoring only a
subset of the whole indexed area. The elements must be included in the
tree defined by the 'topdirs' members.
.TP
.BI "skippedNames = "string
File and directory names which should be ignored.  White space separated list of wildcard patterns (simple ones, not paths, must contain no
'/' characters), which will be tested against file and directory names.

Have a look at the default configuration for the initial value, some entries may not suit your
situation. The easiest way to see it is through the GUI Index configuration "local parameters"
panel.

The list in the default configuration does not exclude hidden directories (names beginning with a
dot), which means that it may index quite a few things that you do not want. On the other hand,
email user agents like Thunderbird usually store messages in hidden directories, and you probably
want this indexed. One possible solution is to have ".*" in "skippedNames", and add things like
"~/.thunderbird" "~/.evolution" to "topdirs".

Not even the file names are indexed for patterns in this list, see the "noContentSuffixes"
variable for an alternative approach which indexes the file names. Can be redefined for any
subtree.
.TP
.BI "skippedNames- = "string
List of name patterns to remove from the default skippedNames list. Allows modifying the list in the local configuration without copying it.
.TP
.BI "skippedNames+ = "string
List of name patterns to add to the default skippedNames list. Allows modifying the list in the local configuration without copying it.
.TP
.BI "onlyNames = "string
Regular file name filter patterns. This is normally empty. If set, only the file names not in skippedNames and matching one of
the patterns will be considered for indexing. Can be redefined per subtree. Does not apply to
directories.
.TP
.BI "noContentSuffixes = "string
List of name endings (not necessarily dot-separated suffixes) for
which we don't try MIME type identification, and don't uncompress or
index content. Only the names will be indexed. This
complements the now obsoleted recoll_noindex list from the mimemap file,
which will go away in a future release (the move from mimemap to
recoll.conf allows editing the list through the GUI). This is different
from skippedNames because these are name ending matches only (not
wildcard patterns), and the file name itself gets indexed normally. This
can be redefined for subdirectories.
.TP
.BI "noContentSuffixes- = "string
List of name endings to remove from the default noContentSuffixes
list. 
.TP
.BI "noContentSuffixes+ = "string
List of name endings to add to the default noContentSuffixes
list. 
.TP
.BI "skippedPaths = "string
Absolute paths we should not go into. Space-separated list of wildcard expressions for absolute filesystem paths (for files or
directories). The variable must be defined at the top level of the configuration file, not in a
subsection.

Any value in the list must be textually consistent with the values in topdirs, no attempts are
made to resolve symbolic links. In practise, if, as is frequently the case, /home is a link to
/usr/home, your default topdirs will have a single entry "~" which will be translated to
"/home/yourlogin". In this case, any skippedPaths entry should start with "/home/yourlogin" *not*
with "/usr/home/yourlogin".

The index and configuration directories will automatically be added to the list.

The expressions are matched using "fnmatch(3)" with the FNM_PATHNAME flag set by default. This
means that "/" characters must be matched explicitly. You can set "skippedPathsFnmPathname" to 0
to disable the use of FNM_PATHNAME (meaning that "/*/dir3" will match "/dir1/dir2/dir3").

The default value contains the usual mount point for removable media to remind you that it is in
most cases a bad idea to have Recoll work on these. Explicitly adding "/media/xxx" to the "topdirs"
variable will override this.
.TP
.BI "skippedPathsFnmPathname = "bool
Set to 0 to
override use of FNM_PATHNAME for matching skipped
paths. 
.TP
.BI "nowalkfn = "string
File name which will cause its parent directory to be skipped. Any directory containing a file with this name will be skipped as
if it was part of the skippedPaths list. Ex: .recoll-noindex
.TP
.BI "daemSkippedPaths = "string
skippedPaths equivalent specific to
real time indexing. This enables having parts of the tree
which are initially indexed but not monitored. If daemSkippedPaths is
not set, the daemon uses skippedPaths.
.TP
.BI "followLinks = "bool
Follow symbolic links during
indexing. The default is to ignore symbolic links to avoid
multiple indexing of linked files. No effort is made to avoid duplication
when this option is set to true. This option can be set individually for
each of the "topdirs" members by using sections. It can not be changed
below the "topdirs" level. Links in the "topdirs" list itself are always
followed.
.TP
.BI "indexedmimetypes = "string
Restrictive list of indexed MIME types. Normally not set (in which case all supported types are indexed). If it is set, only the
types from the list will have their contents indexed. The names will be indexed anyway if
indexallfilenames is set (default). MIME type names should be taken from the mimemap file (the
values may be different from xdg-mime or file -i output in some cases). Can be redefined for
subtrees. Recoll versions after 1.43.7 (excluded) support wildcards in the values.
.TP
.BI "excludedmimetypes = "string
List of excluded MIME types. Lets you exclude some types from indexing. MIME type names should be taken from the mimemap
file (the values may be different from xdg-mime or file -i output in some cases) Can be redefined
for subtrees. Recoll versions after 1.43.7 (excluded) support wildcards in the values.
.TP
.BI "nomd5types = "string
MIME types for which we don't compute a md5 hash. md5 checksums are used only for deduplicating results, and can be very expensive to
compute on multimedia or other big files. This list lets you turn off md5 computation for
selected types. It is global (no redefinition for subtrees). At the moment, it only has an effect
for external handlers (exec and execm). The file types can be specified by listing either MIME
types (e.g. audio/mpeg) or handler names (e.g. rclaudio.py).
.TP
.BI "compressedfilemaxkbs = "int
Size limit for compressed files. We need to decompress these in a temporary directory for identification, which can be
wasteful in some cases. Limit the waste. Negative means no limit. 0 results in no processing of
any compressed file. Default 100 MB. This does *not* concern archives like zip or rar files, but
only single, e.g. gzipped, files.
.TP
.BI "textfilemaxmbs = "int
Size limit for text files. Mostly for skipping monster logs. Also used for max mail msg body size. Default 20 MB. Use
a value of -1 to disable.
.TP
.BI "textfilepagekbs = "int
Page size for text files. If this is set, text/plain files will be divided into documents of approximately this
size. This will reduce memory usage at index time and help with loading data in the preview window
at query time. Particularly useful with very big files, such as application or system logs. Also
see textfilemaxmbs and compressedfilemaxkbs.
.TP
.BI "textunknownasplain = "bool
Process unknown text/xxx files as text/plain Allows indexing misc. text files identified as text/whatever by "file" or "xdg-mime"
without having to explicitly set config entries for them. This works fine for indexing (also will
cause processing of a lot of useless files), but the documents indexed this way will be opened by
the desktop viewer, even if text/plain has a specific editor.
.TP
.BI "indexallfilenames = "bool
Index the file names of unprocessed files. Index the names of files the contents of which we don't index because of an excluded or
unsupported MIME type.
.TP
.BI "usesystemfilecommand = "bool
Try to guess MIME type from data. The name is historical and kept for compatibility, old versions used to execute 'file'
or 'xdg-mime' to determine a MIME type when not using the extension. Current Recoll versions
use libmagic for this. (A compile-time configuration can still restore the old behaviour,
disabling libmagic and using a command).
This identification method can be more accurate in some cases than the suffix-based one, but it's
slower and will cause the indexing of many bogus extension-less "text" files. In addition it will
identify all zip-based formats (e.g. libreoffice) as application/zip, which is of course wrong, so
it can only be a secondary step.
Also see "systemfilecommand". 
.TP
.BI "systemfilecommand = "string
Command to use for guessing the MIME type (if not compiled to use libmagic). The default is now to use libmagic instead. If in use, this should be a "file --mime-type"
workalike. The file path will be added as a last parameter to the command line. "xdg-mime" works
better than the traditional "file" command, and is now the configured default (with a hard-coded
fallback to "file")
.TP
.BI "processwebqueue = "bool
Decide if we process the
Web queue. The queue is a directory where the Recoll Web
browser plugins create the copies of visited pages.
.TP
.BI "membermaxkbs = "int
Size limit for archive members. This is passed to the MIME handlers in the environment as
RECOLL_FILTER_MAXMEMBERKB.
.TP
.BI "indexStripChars = "bool
Decide if we store
character case and diacritics in the index. If we do,
searches sensitive to case and diacritics can be performed, but the index
will be bigger, and some marginal weirdness may sometimes occur. The
default is a stripped index. When using multiple indexes for a search,
this parameter must be defined identically for all. Changing the value
implies an index reset.
.TP
.BI "indexStoreDocText = "bool
Decide if we store the documents' text content in the index. Storing the text allows extracting snippets from it at query time, instead of building them
from index position data.

Newer Xapian index formats have rendered our use of positions list unacceptably slow in some
cases. The last Xapian index format with good performance for the old method is Chert, which is
default for 1.2, still supported but not default in 1.4 and will be dropped in 1.6.

The stored document text is translated from its original format to UTF-8 plain text, but not
stripped of upper-case, diacritics, or punctuation signs. Storing it increases the index size by
10-20% typically, but also allows for nicer snippets, so it may be worth enabling it even if not
strictly needed for performance if you can afford the space.

The variable only has an effect when creating an index, meaning that the xapiandb directory must
not exist yet. Its exact effect depends on the Xapian version.

For Xapian 1.4, if the variable is set to 0, we used to use the Chert format and not store the
text. If the variable was 1, Glass was used, and the text stored. We don't do this any more:
storing the text has proved to be the much better option, and dropping this possibility simplifies
the code.

So now, the index format for a new index is always the default, but the variable still controls if
the text is stored or not, and the abstract generation method. With Xapian 1.4 and later, and the
variable set to 0, abstract generation may be very slow, but this setting may still be useful to
save space if you do not use abstract generation at all, by using the appropriate setting in the
GUI, and/or avoiding the Python API or recollq options which would trigger it.

.TP
.BI "nonumbers = "bool
Decides if terms will be
generated for numbers. For example "123", "1.5e6",
192.168.1.4, would not be indexed if nonumbers is set ("value123" would
still be). Numbers are often quite interesting to search for, and this
should probably not be set except for special situations, ie, scientific
documents with huge amounts of numbers in them, where setting nonumbers
will reduce the index size. This can only be set for a whole index, not
for a subtree.
.TP
.BI "notermpositions = "bool
Do not store term positions. Term positions allow for phrase and proximity searches, but make the index much bigger.
In some special circumstances, you may want to dispense with them.
.TP
.BI "dehyphenate = "bool
Determines if we index "coworker" also when the input is "co-worker". This is new in version 1.22, and on by default. Setting the variable to off allows
restoring the previous behaviour.
.TP
.BI "indexedpunctuation = "string
String of UTF-8 punctuation characters to be indexed as words. The resulting terms will then be searchable and, for example, by setting the parameter to
"%€" (without the double quotes), you would be able to search separately for "100%" or "100€" Note
that "100%" or "100 %" would be indexed in the same way, the characters are their own word
separators.
.TP
.BI "backslashasletter = "bool
Process backslash as a normal letter. This may make sense for people wanting to index TeX commands as such but is not of much
general use.
.TP
.BI "underscoreasletter = "bool
Process underscore as normal letter. This makes sense in so many cases that one wonders if it should
not be the default.
.TP
.BI "maxtermlength = "int
Maximum term length in Unicode characters. Words longer than this will be discarded.
The default is 40 and used to be hard-coded, but it can now be
adjusted. You may need an index reset if you change the value.
.TP
.BI "maxdbdatarecordkbs = "int
Maximum binary size of a Xapian document data record. The data record holds "stored" document metadata fields. A very big size
usually indicates a document parse error. Xapian has a hard limit of around 100MB
for this.
.TP
.BI "maxdbstoredtextmbs = "int
Maximum binary size of a document stored text. Xapian has a hard limit of around 100MB for the compressed value, but our
limit is before compression, so there may be some wiggle room.
.TP
.BI "nocjk = "bool
Decides if specific East Asian
(Chinese Korean Japanese) characters/word splitting is turned
off. This will save a small amount of CPU if you have no CJK
documents. If your document base does include such text but you are not
interested in searching it, setting nocjk may be a
significant time and space saver.
.TP
.BI "cjkngramlen = "int
This lets you adjust the size of
n-grams used for indexing CJK text. The default value of 2 is
probably appropriate in most cases. A value of 3 would allow more precision
and efficiency on longer words, but the index will be approximately twice
as large.
.TP
.BI "hangultagger = "string
External tokenizer for Korean Hangul. This allows using an language specific processor for extracting terms from Korean text,
instead of the generic n-gram term generator.
See https://www.recoll.org/pages/recoll-korean.html for instructions.
.TP
.BI "chinesetagger = "string
External tokenizer for Chinese. This allows using the language specific Jieba tokenizer for extracting
meaningful terms from Chinese text, instead of the generic n-gram term generator.
See https://www.recoll.org/pages/recoll-chinese.html for instructions.

.TP
.BI "indexstemminglanguages = "string
Languages for which to create stemming expansion
data. Stemmer names can be found by executing "recollindex
-l", or this can also be set from a list in the GUI. The values are full
language names, e.g. english, french...
.TP
.BI "defaultcharset = "string
Default character
set. This is used for files which do not contain a
character set definition (e.g.: text/plain). Values found inside files,
e.g. a "charset" tag in HTML documents, will override it. If this is not
set, the default character set is the one defined by the NLS environment
($LC_ALL, $LC_CTYPE, $LANG), or ultimately iso-8859-1 (cp-1252 in fact).
If for some reason you want a general default which does not match your
LANG and is not 8859-1, use this variable. This can be redefined for any
sub-directory.
.TP
.BI "unac_except_trans = "string
A list of characters, encoded in UTF-8, which should be handled specially when converting
text to unaccented lowercase. For example, in Swedish, the letter a with diaeresis has full alphabet citizenship and
should not be turned into an a.  Each element in the space-separated list has the special
character as first element and the translation following. The handling of both the lowercase and
upper-case versions of a character should be specified, as appartenance to the list will turn-off
both standard accent and case processing. The value is global and affects both indexing and
querying.  We also convert a few confusing Unicode characters (quotes, hyphen) to their ASCII
equivalent to avoid "invisible" search failures.

Examples:
Swedish:
unac_except_trans = ää Ää öö Öö üü Üü ßss œoe Œoe æae Æae ﬀff ﬁfi ﬂfl åå Åå ’' ❜' ʼ' ‐-
- German:
unac_except_trans = ää Ää öö Öö üü Üü ßss œoe Œoe æae Æae ﬀff ﬁfi ﬂfl ’' ❜' ʼ' ‐-
- French: you probably want to decompose oe and ae and nobody would type
a German ß
unac_except_trans = ßss œoe Œoe æae Æae ﬀff ﬁfi ﬂfl ’' ❜' ʼ' ‐-
- The default for all until someone protests follows. These decompositions
are not performed by unac, but it is unlikely that someone would type the
composed forms in a search.
unac_except_trans = ßss œoe Œoe æae Æae ﬀff ﬁfi ﬂfl ’' ❜' ʼ' ‐-

.TP
.BI "maildefcharset = "string
Overrides the default
character set for email messages which don't specify
one. This is mainly useful for readpst (libpst) dumps,
which are utf-8 but do not say so.
.TP
.BI "localfields = "string
Set fields on all files
(usually of a specific fs area). Syntax is the usual:
name = value ; attr1 = val1 ; [...]
value is empty so this needs an initial semi-colon. This is useful, e.g.,
for setting the rclaptg field for application selection inside
mimeview.
.TP
.BI "testmodifusemtime = "bool
Use mtime instead of
ctime to test if a file has been modified. The time is used
in addition to the size, which is always used.
Setting this can reduce re-indexing on systems where extended attributes
are used (by some other application), but not indexed, because changing
extended attributes only affects ctime.
Notes:
- This may prevent detection of change in some marginal file rename cases
(the target would need to have the same size and mtime).
- You should probably also set noxattrfields to 1 in this case, except if
you still prefer to perform xattr indexing, for example if the local
file update pattern makes it of value (as in general, there is a risk
for pure extended attributes updates without file modification to go
undetected). Perform a full index reset after changing this.

.TP
.BI "noxattrfields = "bool
Disable extended attributes
conversion to metadata fields. This probably needs to be
set if testmodifusemtime is set.
.TP
.BI "metadatacmds = "string
Define commands to
gather external metadata, e.g. tmsu tags. 
There can be several entries, separated by semi-colons, each defining
which field name the data goes into and the command to use. Don't forget the
initial semi-colon. All the field names must be different. You can use
aliases in the "field" file if necessary.
As a not too pretty hack conceded to convenience, any field name
beginning with "rclmulti" will be taken as an indication that the command
returns multiple field values inside a text blob formatted as a recoll
configuration file ("fieldname = fieldvalue" lines). The rclmultixx name
will be ignored, and field names and values will be parsed from the data.
Example: metadatacmds = ; tags = tmsu tags %f; rclmulti1 = cmdOutputsConf %f

.TP
.BI "cachedir = "dfn
Top directory for Recoll data. Recoll data
directories are normally located relative to the configuration directory
(e.g. ~/.recoll/xapiandb, ~/.recoll/mboxcache). If "cachedir" is set, the
directories are stored under the specified value instead (e.g. if
cachedir is ~/.cache/recoll, the default dbdir would be
~/.cache/recoll/xapiandb).  This affects dbdir, webcachedir,
mboxcachedir, aspellDicDir, which can still be individually specified to
override cachedir.  Note that if you have multiple configurations, each
must have a different cachedir, there is no automatic computation of a
subpath under cachedir.
.TP
.BI "maxfsoccuppc = "int
Maximum file system occupation
over which we stop indexing. The value is a percentage,
corresponding to what the "Capacity" df output column shows. The default
value is 0, meaning no checking. This parameter is only checked when the indexer starts,
it will not change the behaviour or a running process.
.TP
.BI "dbdir = "dfn
Xapian database directory
location. This will be created on first indexing. If the
value is not an absolute path, it will be interpreted as relative to
cachedir if set, or the configuration directory (-c argument or
$RECOLL_CONFDIR).  If nothing is specified, the default is then
~/.recoll/xapiandb/
.TP
.BI "idxstatusfile = "fn
Name of the scratch file where the indexer process updates its
status. Default: idxstatus.txt inside the configuration
directory.
.TP
.BI "mboxcachedir = "dfn
Directory location for storing mbox message offsets cache
files. This is normally "mboxcache" under cachedir if set,
or else under the configuration directory, but it may be useful to share
a directory between different configurations.
.TP
.BI "mboxcacheminmbs = "int
Minimum mbox file size over which we cache the offsets. There is really no sense in caching offsets for small files. The
default is 5 MB.
.TP
.BI "mboxmaxmsgmbs = "int
Maximum mbox member message size in megabytes. Size over which we assume that the mbox format is bad or we
misinterpreted it, at which point we just stop processing the file.
.TP
.BI "webcachedir = "dfn
Directory where we store the archived web pages after they are processed. This is only used by the Web history indexing code. Note that this is different from
webdownloadsdir which tells the indexer where the web pages are stored by the browser, before they
are indexed and stored into webcachedir.
Default: cachedir/webcache if cachedir is set, else $RECOLL_CONFDIR/webcache
.TP
.BI "webcachemaxmbs = "int
Maximum size in MB of the Web archive. This is only used by the web history indexing code.
Default: 40 MB.
Reducing the size will not physically truncate the file.
.TP
.BI "webqueuedir = "fn
The path to the Web indexing queue. This used to be
hard-coded in the old plugin as ~/.recollweb/ToIndex so there would be no
need or possibility to change it, but the WebExtensions plugin now downloads
the files to the user Downloads directory, and a script moves them to
webqueuedir. The script reads this value from the config so it has become
possible to change it.
.TP
.BI "webdownloadsdir = "fn
The path to the browser add-on download directory. This tells the indexer where the Web browser add-on stores the web page data. The data is
then moved by a script to webqueuedir, then processed, and finally stored in webcachedir for
future previews.
.TP
.BI "webcachekeepinterval = "string
Page recycle interval By default, only one instance of an URL is kept in the cache. This
can be changed by setting this to a value determining at what frequency
we keep multiple instances ("day", "week", "month",
"year"). Note that increasing the interval will not erase existing
entries.
.TP
.BI "aspellDicDir = "dfn
Aspell dictionary storage directory location. The
aspell dictionary (aspdict.(lang).rws) is normally stored in the
directory specified by cachedir if set, or under the configuration
directory.
.TP
.BI "filtersdir = "dfn
Directory location for executable input handlers. If
RECOLL_FILTERSDIR is set in the environment, we use it instead. Defaults
to $prefix/share/recoll/filters. Can be redefined for
subdirectories.
.TP
.BI "iconsdir = "dfn
Directory location for icons. The only reason to
change this would be if you want to change the icons displayed in the
result list. Defaults to $prefix/share/recoll/images
.TP
.BI "idxflushmb = "int
Threshold (megabytes of new data) where we flush from memory to disk index. Setting this allows some control over memory usage by the indexer process. A value of 0
means no explicit flushing, which lets Xapian perform its own thing, meaning flushing every
$XAPIAN_FLUSH_THRESHOLD documents created, modified or deleted: as memory usage depends on average
document size, not only document count, the Xapian approach is is not very useful, and you should
let Recoll manage the flushes, however the program compiled value is 0.
The configured default value (from this file) is now 100 MB, and should be ok in many cases.  You
can set it as low as 10 to conserve memory, but if you are looking for maximum speed, you may want
to experiment with values between 20 and 300. In my experience, values beyond this tend to be
counterproductive. If you find otherwise, please drop me a note.
.TP
.BI "filtermaxseconds = "int
Linux: maximum external filter execution time in seconds. Default 1200
(20mn). Set to 0 for no limit. This is mainly to avoid infinite loops in postscript files
(loop.ps)
.TP
.BI "filtermaxmbytes = "int
Linux: maximum virtual memory space for filter processes (setrlimit(RLIMIT_AS)), in
megabytes. Note that this includes any mapped libs (there is no reliable Linux way to limit the data
space only), so we need to be a bit generous here. Anything over 2000 will be ignored on 32 bits
machines.  The high default value is needed because of java-based handlers (pdftk) which need a
lot of VM (most of it text), esp. pdftk when executed from Python rclpdf.py. You can use a much
lower value if you don't need Java.
.TP
.BI "oomadj = "int
Linux: Out-Of-Memory killer adjust score value for the indexer process. See choom(1). During the indexer startup, this value is passed as the adjust parameter to
the choom command with the indexer process as target.
.TP
.BI "thrQSizes = "string
Task queue depths for each stage and threading configuration control. There are three internal queues in the indexing pipeline stages (file data extraction,
terms generation, index update). This parameter defines the queue depths for each stage (three
integer values). In practise, deep queues have not been shown to increase performance. The first
value is also used to control threading autoconfiguration or disabling multithreading.  If the
first queue depth is set to 0 Recoll will set the queue depths and thread counts based on the
detected number of CPUs. The arbitrarily chosen values are as follows (depth,nthread). 1 CPU -> no
threading. Less than 4 CPUs: (2, 2) (2, 2) (2, 1). Less than 6: (2, 4), (2, 2), (2, 1). Else (2,
5), (2, 3), (2, 1).  If the first queue depth is set to -1, multithreading will be disabled
entirely. The second and third values are ignored in both these cases.
.TP
.BI "thrTCounts = "string
Number of threads used for each indexing stage. If the first entry in thrQSizes is not 0 or -1, these three values define the number of
threads used for each stage (file data extraction, term generation, index update).  It makes no
sense to use a value other than 1 for the last stage because updating the Xapian index is
necessarily single-threaded (and protected by a mutex).
.TP
.BI "thrTmpDbCnt = "int
Number of temporary indexes used during incremental or full indexing. If not set to zero, this defines how many temporary indexes we use during indexing.
These temporary indexes are merged into the main one at the end of the operation.
Using multiple indexes and a final merge can significantly improve indexing performance when
the single-threaded Xapian index updates become a bottleneck. How useful this is depends
on the type of input and CPU. See the manual for more details.
.TP
.BI "suspendonbattery = "bool
Suspend the real time indexing when the system runs on battery. The indexer will wait for a return on AC and reexec itself when it happens.
.TP
.BI "loglevel = "int
Log file verbosity 1-6. A value of 2 will print
only errors and warnings. 3 will print information like document updates,
4 is quite verbose and 6 very verbose.
.TP
.BI "logfilename = "fn
Log file destination. Use "stderr" (default) to write to the
console. 
.TP
.BI "logthedate = "bool
Have each log line begin with the date and time. e.g.: 2025-08-21T18:58:24+0200 :3:...
.TP
.BI "idxloglevel = "int
Override loglevel for the indexer. 
.TP
.BI "idxlogfilename = "fn
Override logfilename for the indexer. 
.TP
.BI "idxlogthedate = "bool
override logthedate for the indexer. 
.TP
.BI "helperlogfilename = "fn
Destination file for external helpers standard error output. The external program error output is left alone by default,
e.g. going to the terminal when the recoll[index] program is executed
from the command line. Use /dev/null or a file inside a non-existent
directory to completely suppress the output.
.TP
.BI "daemloglevel = "int
Override loglevel for the real time indexer. The default is to use the idx... values if set, else the log... values.
.TP
.BI "daemlogfilename = "fn
Override logfilename for the real time indexer. The default is to use the idx... values if set, else the log... values.
.TP
.BI "daemlogthedate = "bool
override logthedate for the real time indexer. 
.TP
.BI "pyloglevel = "int
Override loglevel for the Python extension. 
.TP
.BI "pylogfilename = "fn
Override logfilename for the Python extension. 
.TP
.BI "pylogthedate = "bool
override logthedate for the Python extension. 
.TP
.BI "idxnoautopurge = "bool
Do not purge data for deleted or inaccessible files This can be overridden by recollindex command line options and may be useful if some parts
of the document set may predictably be inaccessible at times, so that you would only run the purge
after making sure that everything is there.
.TP
.BI "orgidxconfdir = "dfn
Original location of the configuration directory. This is used exclusively for movable datasets. Locating the
configuration directory inside the directory tree makes it possible to
provide automatic query time path translations once the data set has
moved (for example, because it has been mounted on another
location).
.TP
.BI "curidxconfdir = "dfn
Current location of the configuration directory. Complement orgidxconfdir for movable datasets. This should be used
if the configuration directory has been copied from the dataset to
another location, either because the dataset is readonly and an r/w copy
is desired, or for performance reasons. This records the original moved
location before copy, to allow path translation computations.  For
example if a dataset originally indexed as "/home/me/mydata/config" has
been mounted to "/media/me/mydata", and the GUI is running from a copied
configuration, orgidxconfdir would be "/home/me/mydata/config", and
curidxconfdir (as set in the copied configuration) would be
"/media/me/mydata/config".
.TP
.BI "idxrundir = "dfn
Indexing process current directory. The input
handlers sometimes leave temporary files in the current directory, so it
makes sense to have recollindex chdir to some temporary directory. If the
value is empty, the current directory is not changed. If the
value is (literal) tmp, we use the temporary directory as set by the
environment (RECOLL_TMPDIR else TMPDIR else /tmp). If the value is an
absolute path to a directory, we go there.
.TP
.BI "checkneedretryindexscript = "fn
Script used to heuristically check if we need to retry indexing
files which previously failed.  The default script checks
the modified dates on /usr/bin and /usr/local/bin. A relative path will
be looked up in the filters dirs, then in the path. Use an absolute path
to do otherwise.
.TP
.BI "recollhelperpath = "string
Additional places to search for helper executables. This is used, e.g., on Windows by the Python code, and on Mac OS by the bundled recoll.app
(because I could find no reliable way to tell launchd to set the PATH). The example below is for
Windows. Use ":" as entry separator for Mac and Ux-like systems, ";" is for Windows only.
.TP
.BI "idxabsmlen = "int
Length of abstracts we store while indexing. Recoll stores an abstract for each indexed file.
The text can come from an actual "abstract" section in the
document or will just be the beginning of the document. It is stored in
the index so that it can be displayed inside the result lists without
decoding the original file. The idxabsmlen parameter
defines the size of the stored abstract. The default value is 250
bytes. The search interface gives you the choice to display this stored
text or a synthetic abstract built by extracting text around the search
terms. If you always prefer the synthetic abstract, you can reduce this
value and save a little space.
.TP
.BI "idxmetastoredlen = "int
Truncation length of stored metadata fields. This
does not affect indexing (the whole field is processed anyway), just the
amount of data stored in the index for the purpose of displaying fields
inside result lists or previews. The default value is 150 bytes which
may be too low if you have custom fields.
.TP
.BI "idxtexttruncatelen = "int
Truncation length for all document texts. Only index
the beginning of documents. This is not recommended except if you are
sure that the interesting keywords are at the top and have severe disk
space issues.
.TP
.BI "idxsynonyms = "fn
Name of the index-time synonyms file. This is only used to issue multi-word single terms for multi-word synonyms so that phrase
and proximity searches work for them (ex: applejack "apple jack"). The feature will only have an
effect for querying if the query-time and index-time synonym files are the same.
.TP
.BI "idxniceprio = "int
"nice" process priority for the indexing processes. Default: 19 (lowest) Appeared with 1.26.5. Prior versions were fixed at 19.
.TP
.BI "noaspell = "bool
Disable aspell use. The aspell dictionary generation takes time, and some combinations of aspell version,
language, and local terms, result in aspell crashing, so it sometimes makes sense to just disable
the thing.
.TP
.BI "aspellLanguage = "string
Language definitions to use when creating the aspell dictionary. The value must match a set of aspell language definition files. You can type "aspell dicts"
to see a list The default if this is not set is to use the NLS environment to guess the value. The
values are the 2-letter language codes (e.g. "en", "fr"...)
.TP
.BI "aspellAddCreateParam = "string
Additional option and parameter to aspell dictionary creation command. Some aspell packages may need an additional option (e.g. on Debian Jessie:
--local-data-dir=/usr/lib/aspell). See Debian bug 772415.
.TP
.BI "aspellKeepStderr = "bool
Set this to have a look at aspell dictionary creation errors. There are always many, so this is mostly for debugging.
.TP
.BI "monauxinterval = "int
Auxiliary database update interval. The real time
indexer only updates the auxiliary databases (stemdb, aspell)
periodically, because it would be too costly to do it for every document
change. The default period is one hour.
.TP
.BI "monixinterval = "int
Minimum interval (seconds) between processings of the indexing
queue. The real time indexer does not process each event
when it comes in, but lets the queue accumulate, to diminish overhead and
to aggregate multiple events affecting the same file. Default 30
S.
.TP
.BI "mondelaypatterns = "string
Timing parameters for the real time indexing. Definitions for files which get a longer delay before reindexing
is allowed. This is for fast-changing files, that should only be
reindexed once in a while. A list of wildcardPattern:seconds pairs. The
patterns are matched with fnmatch(pattern, path, 0) You can quote entries
containing white space with double quotes (quote the whole entry, not the
pattern). The default is empty.
Example: mondelaypatterns = *.log:20 "*with spaces.*:30"
.TP
.BI "monioniceclass = "int
ionice class for the indexing process. Despite the misleading name, and on platforms where this is
supported, this affects all indexing processes,
not only the real time/monitoring ones. The default value is 3 (use
lowest "Idle" priority).
.TP
.BI "monioniceclassdata = "string
ionice class level parameter if the class supports it. The default is empty, as the default "Idle" class has no
levels.
.TP
.BI "sofficecmd = "string
Path to the soffice command (e.g. from libreoffice) This is used for Apple pages documents and big openoffice spreadsheets.
Use double-quoting if there are spaces in the path (e.g. C:/Program Files/) *and* you want
to add parameters to the default command (uncommon). If not set, recoll will try to find it in
the PATH.
.TP
.BI "idxlocalguisettings = "bool
Store some GUI parameters locally to the index. GUI settings are normally stored in a global file, valid for all
indexes. Setting this parameter will make some settings, such as the result
table setup, specific to the index.
.TP
.BI "autodiacsens = "bool
auto-trigger diacritics sensitivity (raw index only). IF the index is not stripped, decide if we automatically trigger
diacritics sensitivity if the search term has accented characters (not in
unac_except_trans). Else you need to use the query language and the "D"
modifier to specify diacritics sensitivity. Default is no.
.TP
.BI "autocasesens = "bool
auto-trigger case sensitivity (raw index only). IF
the index is not stripped (see indexStripChars), decide if we
automatically trigger character case sensitivity if the search term has
upper-case characters in any but the first position. Else you need to use
the query language and the "C" modifier to specify character-case
sensitivity. Default is yes.
.TP
.BI "maxTermExpand = "int
Maximum query expansion count
for a single term (e.g.: when using wildcards). This only
affects queries, not indexing. We used to not limit this at all (except
for filenames where the limit was too low at 1000), but it is
unreasonable with a big index. Default 10000.
.TP
.BI "maxXapianClauses = "int
Maximum number of clauses
we add to a single Xapian query. This only affects queries,
not indexing. In some cases, the result of term expansion can be
multiplicative, and we want to avoid eating all the memory. Default
50000.
.TP
.BI "snippetMaxPosWalk = "int
Maximum number of positions we walk while populating a snippet for
the result list. The default of 1,000,000 may be
insufficient for very big documents, the consequence would be snippets
with possibly meaning-altering missing words.
.TP
.BI "thumbnailercmd = "string
Command to use for generating thumbnails.  If set, this should be a path to a command or script followed by its constant
arguments. Four arguments will be appended before execution: the document URL, MIME type, target
icon SIZE (e.g. 128), and output file PATH. The command should generate a thumbnail from these
values. E.g. if the MIME is video, a script could use: ffmpegthumbnailer -iURL -oPATH
-sSIZE.
.TP
.BI "stemexpandphrases = "bool
Default to applying stem expansion to phrase terms. Recoll normally does not apply stem expansion to terms inside phrase searches.
Setting this parameter will change the default behaviour to expanding terms inside
phrases. If set, you can use a "l" modifier to disable expansion for a specific
instance.
.TP
.BI "autoSpellRarityThreshold = "int
Inverse of the ratio of term occurrence to total db terms over which we look for spell
neighbours for automatic query expansion When a term is very uncommon, we may (depending on user choice) look for spelling
variations which would be more common and possibly add them to the query.
.TP
.BI "autoSpellSelectionThreshold = "int
Ratio of spell neighbour frequency over user input term frequency beyond which we include
the neighbour in the query. When a term has been selected for spelling expansion because of its rarity, we only include
spelling neighbours which are more common by this ratio.
.TP
.BI "kioshowsubdocs = "bool
Show embedded document results in KDE dolphin/kio and krunner Embedded documents may clutter the results and are not always easily usable from the kio or
krunner environment. Setting this variable will restrict the results to standalone
documents.
.TP
.BI "pdfocr = "bool
Attempt OCR of PDF files with no text content. This can be defined in subdirectories. The default is off because OCR is so very slow.

.TP
.BI "pdfforceocr = "bool
Run OCR even if the PDF document has text content. This can be defined in subdirectories. The OCR output will be concatenated to the PDF text.

.TP
.BI "pdfoutline = "bool
Extract outlines and bookmarks from PDF documents (needs pdftohtml). This is not enabled by default because it is rarely needed, and the extra command takes a
little time.
.TP
.BI "pdfattach = "bool
Enable PDF attachment extraction by executing pdfdetach (if available). This used to be disabled by default because it used pdftk. We now use pdfdetach, which
is part of poppler-utils and fast.
.TP
.BI "pdfextrameta = "string
Extract text from selected XMP metadata tags. This
is a space-separated list of qualified XMP tag names. Each element can also
include a translation to a Recoll field name, separated by a "|"
character. If the second element is absent, the tag name is used as the
Recoll field names. You will also need to add specifications to the
"fields" file to direct processing of the extracted data.
.TP
.BI "pdfextrametafix = "fn
Define name of XMP field editing script. This
defines the name of a script to be loaded for editing XMP field
values. The script should define a "MetaFixer" class with a metafix()
method which will be called with the qualified tag name and value of each
selected field, for editing or erasing. A new instance is created for
each document, so that the object can keep state for, e.g. eliminating
duplicate values.
.TP
.BI "zipUseSkippedNames = "bool
Use skippedNames inside Zip archives. Fetched
directly by the rclzip.py handler. Skip the patterns defined by skippedNames
inside Zip archives. Can be redefined for subdirectories.
See https://www.recoll.org/faqsandhowtos/FilteringOutZipArchiveMembers.html

.TP
.BI "zipSkippedNames = "string
Space-separated list of wildcard expressions for names that should
be ignored inside zip archives. This is used directly by
the zip handler. If zipUseSkippedNames is not set, zipSkippedNames
defines the patterns to be skipped inside archives. If zipUseSkippedNames
is set, the two lists are concatenated and used. Can be redefined for
subdirectories.
See https://www.recoll.org/faqsandhowtos/FilteringOutZipArchiveMembers.html

.TP
.BI "zipMetaEncoding = "string
File path encoding. Needs Python 3.11+. Set to "detect" for using chardet. This is useful for non-standard zip files where the metadata is neither UTF-8 (indicated by
a file flag), nor CP437 (default). The parameter can be set for specific subtrees. You need to
install the Python3 "chardet" package if the value is set to "detect".
.TP
.BI "orgmodesubdocs = "bool
Index org-mode level 1 sections as separate sub-documents This is the default. If set to false, org-mode files will be indexed as plain text
.TP
.BI "mhmboxquirks = "string
Enable thunderbird/mozilla-seamonkey mbox format quirks Set this for the directory(ies) where the email mbox files are stored.
.TP
.BI "imgocr = "bool
Tell the non-default Python image handler to run OCR. See the PDF section for PDF OCR. The image OCR also needs mimeconf changes. See the
manual. imgocr can be defined for subdirectories.

.TP
.BI "ocrprogs = "string
OCR modules to try. The top OCR script will try to load the corresponding modules in order and use the first
which reports being capable of performing OCR on the input file. Modules for tesseract (tesseract)
and ABBYY FineReader (abbyy) are present in the standard distribution. For compatibility with the
previous version, if this is not defined at all, the default value is "tesseract". Use an explicit
empty value if needed. The value can be redefined in subtrees.
.TP
.BI "ocrcachedir = "dfn
Location for caching OCR data. The default if this is empty or undefined is to store the cached
OCR data under $RECOLL_CONFDIR/ocrcache.
.TP
.BI "tesseractlang = "string
Language to assume for tesseract OCR. Important for improving the OCR accuracy. This can also be set through the contents of a
file in the currently processed directory. See the rclocrtesseract.py script. Example values: eng,
fra... See the tesseract Web sitedocumentation for language codes and how to download additional
language packs. When specifying multiple languages, use a '+' separator and no spaces, e.g.
eng+fra. The value can be redefined in subtrees.
.TP
.BI "tesseractcmd = "fn
Path for the tesseract command. Do not quote. This is mostly useful on Windows, or for specifying a non-default
tesseract command. E.g. on Windows.
tesseractcmd = C:/ProgramFiles/Tesseract-OCR/tesseract.exe

.TP
.BI "abbyylang = "string
Language to assume for abbyy OCR. Important for improving the OCR accuracy. This can also be set
through the contents of a file in
the currently processed directory. See the rclocrabbyy.py
script. Typical values: English, French... See the ABBYY documentation.

.TP
.BI "abbyyocrcmd = "fn
Path for the abbyy command The ABBY directory is usually not in the path, so you should set this.
.TP
.BI "speechtotext = "string
Activate speech to text conversion The only possible value at the moment is "whisper" for using the OpenAI whisper program.

.TP
.BI "sttmodel = "string
Name of the whisper model 
.TP
.BI "sttdevice = "string
Name of the device to be used by for whisper 

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
recollindex(1) recoll(1)
